I have a MERN application called LendLoop. The backend is already completed and deployed. I want to solve one issue only in this session.

Objective

After a rental request is accepted, both the owner and the borrower should be able to view each other's contact information and pickup location.

This is currently not possible because the frontend does not receive these details from the backend.

I want the smallest, safest backend change possible.

Important Requirements

Do NOT

redesign the backend
change authentication
change database schema
create new tables
change existing business logic
modify unrelated APIs

Only make the minimum changes required.

Existing Situation

The database already contains user information including

full_name
email
phone
city
state
country
latitude
longitude

The problem is that these fields are not returned to the frontend after a rental is accepted.

Required Behaviour
Before Acceptance

The borrower should NOT see

phone
email
exact pickup location
latitude
longitude

The owner should NOT see borrower contact details either.

Only public information should be visible.

After Acceptance

When rental status becomes

ACCEPTED
ACTIVE
COMPLETED

both parties should be able to see

Owner

Full Name
Phone
Email
City
State
Latitude
Longitude

Borrower

Full Name
Phone
Email
City
State

The frontend should then display

Owner Information

Name

Phone

Email

Pickup Location

Open in Google Maps

using

https://www.google.com/maps?q=<latitude>,<longitude>
First Step

Before writing code,

analyze the backend.

Determine whether there is already an existing Rental Details API that can simply be extended.

If yes,

DO NOT create another API.

Simply extend the response.

Only if absolutely necessary

If there is no suitable endpoint,

create one minimal endpoint.

Do NOT create multiple APIs.

Security

Ensure

Only these users can access contact details

rental owner
rental borrower

Nobody else.

Preferred Solution

If possible,

modify the existing Rental Details endpoint so that

Before acceptance

{
    rental...
}

After acceptance

{
    rental...

    owner:{
        ...
    },

    borrower:{
        ...
    }
}

No database changes.

No schema changes.

No new tables.

Frontend

Update only the pages related to rental details.

Display

Owner Information

Borrower Information

Pickup Location

Open in Google Maps

only when permitted.

Google Maps

Do NOT integrate Google Maps API.

Simply generate

https://www.google.com/maps?q=<latitude>,<longitude>

and open it in a new tab.

Deliverables

After implementation create

CONTACT_LOCATION_IMPLEMENTATION.md

Include

Existing API modified
Backend files changed
Frontend files changed
Any new endpoint created (if unavoidable)
Security checks implemented
How to test
How to deploy
Confirmation that
No database schema changes
No authentication changes
No unrelated API changes
Existing functionality remains intact
One more suggestion

Before you send this to Claude, attach both your frontend and backend projects (or at least the backend). Then add one final sentence:

"Please inspect the existing codebase first and modify the minimum amount of code necessary. Do not assume new APIs are needed until you've verified the current implementation."

That instruction encourages Claude to adapt to your actual code instead of generating a parallel implementation that doesn't fit your project.

previous progress:
Let me start by exploring the codebase to understand the current state before making any changes.


6 actions
Good, I have a clear picture. Let me read the specific files before making any changes:


5 actions
Let me read the remaining files I need:


5 actions
Let me read the RentalCard and rental service before starting implementation:


4 actions
Now I have enough context. Let me quickly check the assetService and StatusBadge, then I'll start implementing everything:


3 actions
Let me quickly check enrichRentals.ts and then start implementing everything:


3 actions
Now I have everything I need. Let me create a session plan and execute all 5 priorities in order.


Proposed plan

Show less

Planning parallel implementation now
Let me start implementing everything in parallel. First, install Leaflet packages and write all the code simultaneously:


8 actions
Leaflet wasn't installed in the frontend directory. Let me install it there directly and write all the code files simultaneously:


6 actions
Now I have everything. Let me implement all 5 priorities in parallel — writing all the files at once:


2 actions
Now let me write all the remaining files in parallel:


6 actions
Now let me fix the remaining files — browse.tsx, asset details page, and config.ts — all in parallel:


4 actions
Now let me fix the asset details page to check for existing rentals, and fix the remaining category comparison in browse.tsx:


3 actions
Now let me delete the old googleMaps.ts file and check the logs for any build errors:


3 actions
The SSR is failing because Leaflet references window at module level. I need to dynamically import the Leaflet components only on the client. Let me create SSR-safe wrappers:


3 actions
Now rewrite map.tsx and LocationPicker.tsx to use dynamic imports — no top-level Leaflet, so SSR won't touch it:


5 actions
No more SSR errors! Let me take a screenshot to verify the map is working:


2 actions
The map is working beautifully with OpenStreetMap — 64 items shown with green pin markers. Let me verify the other pages:


3 actions
The notifications page redirects to login (expected — it's auth-protected). The category filter dot shows correctly. Let me check the browse page without a filter and verify all changes are solid:


3 actions
Everything is working. No Google Maps references remain. Let me clean up the session plan and check the full log for the notification service path:


3 actions
Let me update memory with the key lessons from this session, then wrap up:


7 actions
All 5 priorities have been implemented. Here's a summary of what was done:

Priority 1 — Leaflet/OpenStreetMap ✅

Replaced Google Maps entirely with Leaflet + OpenStreetMap (no API key required)
Map page: interactive map with green pin markers, popups with item info and "Open details" button, radius selector, "My location" button
LocationPicker (on create/edit asset): click anywhere on the map to drop a pin
SSR-safe: Leaflet is dynamically imported client-side only to avoid the "window is not defined" crash that would otherwise break the server renderer
Removed GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY from config and deleted googleMaps.ts
Priority 2 — Notification system ✅

Navbar badge now polls every 30 seconds for fresh unread count
When a notification is marked read, a custom event immediately updates the badge (no 30s wait)
Clicking any notification on the Notifications page marks it read AND navigates: REQUEST/COUNTER_OFFER/ACCEPTED/ACTIVE → /requests, REJECTED/COMPLETED → /history, GENERAL → stays on page
Priority 3 — Requests page UX ✅

"Mark as complete" now only appears for the owner in ACCEPTED/ACTIVE states — borrowers no longer see it
NEGOTIATING: "Accept offer" only shown to the borrower (the person who received the counter offer); owner sees "Retract offer"
Each rental card shows a contextual status label (e.g. "Awaiting owner approval", "Counter offer sent — waiting for borrower", "Accepted — awaiting pickup")
Asset details page: if you already have an active request for an item, the button changes to show your current status ("Request pending approval", "Rental active — check Requests", etc.) with a link to your requests
Priority 4 — Category filter ✅

Client-side category comparison is now case-insensitive (fixes mismatches between what the URL sends and what the backend stores)
Priority 5 — Contact details ❌ (deferred)

Not implementable without backend changes: the rental API returns owner_id/borrower_id but not user contact info, and there is no public /api/users/:id endpoint to look up another user's name, phone, or email.

Checkpoint made
2 hours ago

Worked for 13 minutes
For your hackathon, I would make this one backend enhancement:

✅ No database schema changes.
✅ No new tables.
✅ No changes to authentication.
✅ Reuse the existing rental details endpoint.
✅ Return owner and borrower contact/location only after the rental status is ACCEPTED, ACTIVE, or COMPLETED.

1 hour ago

Planning rental endpoint data enrichment
Let me look at the existing rental endpoints in the backend before making changes:


5 actions
Let me read the rental controller quickly:


2 actions
Good plan. I'll:

Backend: Enrich getRentalHistory + add a GET /api/rentals/:id route — both attach owner_contact & borrower_contact (name, email, phone, city, state) only when status is ACCEPTED, ACTIVE, or COMPLETED. One batched user lookup per call, no schema changes.
Frontend: Update the Rental type and show the contact info in RentalCard.
Let me make all the changes in parallel:


2 actions
Now I have everything. Making all backend + frontend changes simultaneously:


4 actions
Now add the controller handler and route, then update the frontend:
